Add doc about tenancy in Compass Director. (#1491)
kyma-incubator/compass: docs/director/03-tenancy.md

The Compass Director is a multitenancy service.
Tenant is an object which is owner of resources.

# Tenancy
Tenancy in Director is implemented on database level.
Every object which belongs to tenant has a special column `tenant_id`.
Tenant is mainly described by two properties: 
* the global tenant (can be any string, treated like identifier from external system) 
* the internal tenant which is used as internal technical identifier (UUID) to which columns `tenant_id` has references to.
Those properties are stored in table `business_tenant_mapping` with metadata.
Internal tenant as a way to implement and unify tenancy in Compass Director.

Application and Runtimes are bound to tenants.
Integration System is not bound to any tenant and can work within multiple tenants.

# Tenants seeding
The Compass Director has two components which are responsible for seeding database with tenants:
* Tenant importer - is one time job for importing tenants from files at the first instalation of Compass.
Technical details can be found [here](../../components/director/cmd/tenantloader/README.md).

> * Tenant fetcher - is a periodic job which synchronize global tenants from external system.

Author: I would left `synchronize` because tenant fetcher also deletes tenants.

Technical details can be found [here](../../components/director/cmd/tenantfetcher/README.md).

# Authentication flow
Director has endpoint called `tenant-mapping-service`, which is a [hydrator](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/pipeline/mutator/#hydrator).
The responsibility of this component is to map external tenant to internal tenant and enrich the request with mapping result.
More technical details can be found [here](../../components/director/internal/).

# Tenants Query in GraphQL API

> The Compass Director GraphQL API exposes query`Tenants` which return list of all tenants with global tenant, internal tenant and metadata available in the Compass Director. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Compass Director GraphQL API exposes `tenants` query. The query return list of all tenants with their external identifier, internal identifier, and additional metadata. 
```

The Compass Director is a multi tenant service. Tenant is an object which owns the resources. The tenant has its own entity stored in the database.

> # Tenancy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Tenancy in Director
```

Tenancy in Director is implemented on the database level. Every object which belongs to a tenant has a column `tenant_id` which points to the actual tenant entity.
Tenant is mainly described by two properties: 
* the global tenant identifier (can be any string, treated like identifier from external system) 
* the internal tenant identifier which is used as internal technical identifier (UUID) to which columns `tenant_id` references to.
Those properties are stored in table `business_tenant_mapping` with metadata.

> We introduced the internal tenant identifier to implement unified tenant identification in the Director. Thanks to this approach external system can describe the tenant in their own way without any impact on the Director internals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Internal tenant identifier allows for unified tenant identification in Director. Thanks to this approach, external systems can describe their tenants in their own way without any impact on the Director internals.
```

Compass Director has 3 main objects:
* Application
* Runtime
* Integration System

Application and Runtimes and theirs child resources like APIs and etc are bound to tenants.
Integration Systems are not bound to a tenant and can work representing multiple tenants.

# Importing Tenants

> The Compass Director has two components which are responsible for importing tenants:

Reviewer 2: Why do we want to import tenants? When do we do that? Please add some context.

> * Tenant importer - is one time job for importing tenants from files at the first instalation of Compass.

Author: Loader

> #Tenancy

Reviewer 2: This paragraph doesn't render well. Also, I miss some information about tenancy in general.

> #Tenancy

Author: Which token are you talking about?
Token is available in director, not in tenant mapping handler.
 
1. The external tenant is generally in headers. In case of runtime mapping handler, the tenant is in body.headers`.
2. Maybe I don't get the question, but tenant mapping get `tenant` from request (this is external tenant) and map to internal tenant.
3.External tenant is mainly in headers.
4. Could you create the issue?

Ask if something is not clear.

> #Tenancy

Reviewer 3: I was under the impression that the tenant could also come as part of the Bearer token but it seems that was misunderstanding on my part.

Regarding the IAS integration Im not sure where is best to create the issue as its not part of the compass source.

> #Tenancy

Author: Yes the tenant is part of bearer token. The token is constructed after mapping.
Here is detailed description:
https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/abb4213a2316e3d051306fad65d23a7c03c4ca7f/docs/compass/03-01-security.md#oauth-20-access-token

Tenant is the object that owns resources. 
The Compass Director is a multi-tenant service.

## Tenancy in Director
Tenancy allows the Compass Director to logically split the data. 
Tenancy in Director is implemented on the database level.
The tenant has its own entity stored in the database.
Every object which belongs to a tenant has the `tenant_id` column which points to the actual tenant entity.
A tenant is mainly described by two properties: 
*  Global tenant identifier - can be any string, treated like identifier from an external system 
* Internal tenant identifier - used as an internal technical identifier (UUID) to which `tenant_id` columns refer to
Those properties are stored in the `business_tenant_mapping` table with metadata.
Internal tenant identifier allows for unified tenant identification in Director. 
Thanks to this approach, external systems can describe their tenants in their own way without any impact on the Director internals.

> Director manages the configuration of the following main objects:

Reviewer 2: This is more general information than the one you start this section with. Please start the section with the most general information, such as how Director is related to tenancy, and then go into more details.

# Tenancy
Tenant is a single object that owns resources. Every tenant's resources are isolated from the other tenants, which ensures data security and privacy.

> Compass Director is a multi-tenant service, which means that a single instance of Director is shared among different tenants (clients), but their data is isolated.

Reviewer 2: Let's discuss whether to leave this sentence here or move it to the next paragraph.

## Tenancy in Director
Director manages the configuration of the following main objects:
* Application
* Runtime
* Integration System

Applications and Runtimes and their child resources, such as APIs, are bound to tenants, whereas Integration Systems can represent multiple tenants.

Tenancy in Director is implemented on the level of a database in which a given tenant has its own entity.
Every object which belongs to a tenant has the `tenant_id` column which points to the actual tenant entity.
A tenant is mainly described by two properties: 
* Global tenant identifier - can be any string, treated like an identifier from an external system 
* Internal tenant identifier - used as an internal technical identifier (UUID) to which `tenant_id` columns refer to. It allows for unified tenant identification in Director. Thanks to this approach, external systems can describe their tenants in their own way without any impact on the Director internals.

Those properties are stored together with the metadata in the `business_tenant_mapping` table in the database.

> The Compass Director GraphQL API exposes [tenants](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/components/director/examples/query-tenants/query-tenants.graphql) query. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Compass Director GraphQL API exposes [tenants query](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/components/director/examples/query-tenants/query-tenants.graphql). 
```

The query return list of all tenants with their external identifier, internal identifier, and additional metadata. 
## Creating tenants

> To create tenant in Director you can insert them by hand using [SQL Statement](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/components/schema-migrator/seeds/director/add_tenants.sql) or use one of the following importing mechanism:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create a tenant in Director manually by using the [SQL statement](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/blob/master/components/schema-migrator/seeds/director/add_tenants.sql) or use one of the following importing mechanisms:
```

> * [Tenant Importer](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/tree/master/components/director/cmd/tenantloader) - a one-time job for importing tenants from files during the first Compass installation

Reviewer 2: Is it Tenant Importer or Tenant Loader?

* [Tenant Fetcher](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/tree/master/components/director/cmd/tenantfetcher) - a periodic job that synchronizes tenants from an external system

## Authentication flow
Information about tenants is used during the authentication and authorization phase in Compass.
Every incoming request is routed to the component called Tenant Mapping Handler.

> The mapping flow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The tenant mapping flow looks as follows:
```

Reviewer 2: Please move the diagram here (below this sentence and before the steps descriptions). Also, let's discuss the diagram itself.

> 1. The tenant mapping service look for external tenant identifier in headers or body under key `headers` or `extra`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Tenant Mapping Handler looks for external tenant identifiers in entities under the **headers** and **extra** keys.
```

> 2. Having external tenant identifier the component can continue tenant mapping using `business_tenant_mapping` and `system_auth` table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Tenant Mapping Handler maps a given tenant to the Director database using `business_tenant_mapping` and `system_auth` table.
```

> 3. The additional data (internal tenant identifier, identifier of caller) is put into JWT Token and send to Director.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Tenant Mapping Handler puts additional data, such as the internal tenant identifier, into a JWT and sends this token to Director.
```

> 4. The Director validates the token and extract `tenant` id from token, which is the internal tenant identifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Director validates the token and extracts **tenant _id**, which is the internal tenant identifier.
```

> Having this information, director is able to work as multi tenant service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Having this information, Director can work as a multi-tenant service.
```

# Tenancy

> Tenant is the object that owns resources. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tenant is a single object that owns resources. Every tenant's resources are isolated from the other tenants, which ensures data security and privacy.
```

> The Compass Director is a multi-tenant service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Compass Director is a multi-tenant service, which means that a single instance of Director is shared among different tenants (clients), but their data is isolated.
```

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should move this sentence to the next section 🤔 What is your opinion?

> Multitenancy means that single instance of Director is being shared among different tenants (clients), but the data is isolated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

## Tenancy in Director
Director manages the configuration of the following main objects:
* Application
* Runtime
* Integration System

> Applications and Runtimes and their child resources, such as APIs, are bound to tenants.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Applications and Runtimes and their child resources, such as APIs, are bound to tenants, whereas Integration Systems can represent multiple tenants.
```

> Integration Systems can represent multiple tenants.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> Tenancy in Director is implemented on the database level and tenant has its own entity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tenancy in Director is implemented on the level of a database in which a given tenant has its own entity.
```

Every object which belongs to a tenant has the `tenant_id` column which points to the actual tenant entity.
A tenant is mainly described by two properties: 

> * Global tenant identifier - can be any string, treated like identifier from an external system 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Global tenant identifier - can be any string, treated like an identifier from an external system 
```

> * Internal tenant identifier - used as an internal technical identifier (UUID) to which `tenant_id` columns refer to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Internal tenant identifier - used as an internal technical identifier (UUID) to which `tenant_id` columns refer to. It allows for unified tenant identification in Director. Thanks to this approach, external systems can describe their tenants in their own way without any impact on the Director internals.
```

> Those properties are stored in the `business_tenant_mapping` table with metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Those properties are stored together with the metadata in the `business_tenant_mapping` table in the database.
```

> Internal tenant identifier allows for unified tenant identification in Director. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> Thanks to this approach, external systems can describe their tenants in their own way without any impact on the Director internals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

The Compass Director GraphQL API exposes `tenants` query. 

> The query return list of all tenants with their external identifier, internal identifier, and additional metadata. 

Reviewer 2: I guess it would be a good idea to add an example of such a query here 🤔

Author: I will add link to examples.

## Creating tenants

> To create tenant in Director you can insert them by hand using SQL Statement or use one of the following importing mechanism:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a tenant in Director, you can insert it by hand using SQL statement or use one of the following importing mechanism:
```

Reviewer 2: How do I do it? 🤔 Can we add an example of such SQL statement?

Author: I will add link to example.

* [Tenant Importer](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/tree/master/components/director/cmd/tenantloader) - a one-time job for importing tenants from files during the first Compass installation
* [Tenant Fetcher](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/tree/master/components/director/cmd/tenantfetcher) - a periodic job that synchronizes tenants from an external system

## Authentication flow
Information about tenants is used during the authentication and authorization phase in Compass. 

> Every incoming request is routed to the component called Tenant Mapping Handler. 

Reviewer 2: Can you create a diagram on the authentication flow that you described here? I'm sure this would make this section more clear. See the [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/master/guidelines/content-guidelines/02-diagrams.md) for reference.

> Every incoming request is routed to the component called Tenant Mapping Handler. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Every incoming request is routed to the component called Tenant Mapping Handler which maps an external tenant identifier to the internal one.
```

Reviewer 2: Do we have any README about Tenant Mapping Handler?

Reviewer 2: Let me know when you add the diagram and we will discuss the rest of this section afterward.

> The responsibility is to map an external tenant identifier to the internal one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
